Create west-sbom-report.md (#1)
doki-nordic/drafts: west-sbom-report.md

> ### WARNING!

> > Some of the files does not contains license information or the license contained in them cannot be detected.<br>
> See [license details](internal_link) for list of files.
> Evaluate them manually to get license information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Some of the files in the build do no contain license information or it cannot be detected.<br>
See [license details](internal_link) for list of such files.
You need to evaluate them manually to get the license information.
```

> 

Reviewer: I would rather start the document with a generic short description, with a title something like Software Bill of Material report. Then have a note rather than a warning after the description text.

Author: Ok, so maybe: move `Summary` above note/warning and rename it to `Software Bill of Material report`

# Software Bill of Material report

> the note

# ~~Summary~~

This report was generated from the follo....

# Summary

This report was generated from the following inputs:

> * `zephyr/zephyr.elf from build directory /home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/samples/crypto/ecdsa/build_sbom_test`
> * `files: **/*.c, **/*.h (relative to /home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/samples/crypto/ecdsa/)`
> * `list of files read from: /home/doki/work/ncs2/sample-list.txt`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `zephyr/zephyr.elf` file from the build directory `/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/samples/crypto/ecdsa/build_sbom_test`.
* Files: `**/*.c` and , `**/*.h` (relative to `/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/samples/crypto/ecdsa/`).
* A list of files read from: `/home/doki/work/ncs2/sample-list.txt`
```

Author: Each list item comes from the script, so I cannot format it by adding \` \`, so everything must be using the same format. I will change the text.

> Detected files are covered by the licenses:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The files detected are covered by the following licenses:
```

* [LicenseRef-Nordic-5-Clause OR Apache-2.0](internal_link)
* [LicenseRef-Nordic-5-Clause](internal_link)
* [Apache-2.0](internal_link)

> * Possibly other licenses that [cannot be detected automatically](internal_link)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Other licenses](internal_link) that cannot be detected automatically
```

Author: I added there `Possibly` because the list of files may not contain other licenses, we simply don't know that, because it cannot be detected.

> Following licenses are not covered by [SPDX License List](internet_link), so texts are added to this report:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following licenses are not covered by the [SPDX license list](internet_link) but are included in this report:
```

* [LicenseRef-Nordic-5-Clause](internal_link)

# License details

## No license information detected
```
/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/samples/crypto/ecdsa/build_sbom_test/zephyr/dev_handles.c
/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/samples/crypto/ecdsa/build_sbom_test/zephyr/include/generated/autoconf.h
/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/samples/crypto/ecdsa/build_sbom_test/zephyr/include/generated/device_extern.h
/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/samples/crypto/ecdsa/build_sbom_test/zephyr/include/generated/devicetree_fixups.h
```

## LicenseRef-Nordic-5-Clause OR Apache-2.0

> License expression with following licenses:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The license expressions in the detected licenses are the following:
```

Author: That is not what I was to say. 

`License expression` is a therm defined by SPDX standard. If licensing is more complicated that a single license then license expression can be used to express it, e.g. `MIT OR GPL-3.0-or-later WITH GCC-exception-3.1` - this means that the file is released on two licenses (user can chose any of them): MIT or GPL-3.0-or-later  (an exception is applied to the second license).

So, this sentence should say that, in this section, we are talking about `License expression`. The license expression contains licenses listed below.

>  * Non-standard SPDX License: Nordic 5-Clause License
> 
>    See [license text below](internal_link).
>  
>  * Apache License 2.0
> 
>    https://spdx.org/licenses/Apache-2.0.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * [Non-standard SPDX License: Nordic 5-Clause License](internal_link)
 * [Apache License 2.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/Apache-2.0.html)
```

```
/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/drivers/entropy/entropy_cc3xx.c
/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/drivers/hw_cc310/hw_cc310.c
/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/lib/fatal_error/fatal_error.c
```

> ## Apache-2.0 OR WITH AND OR AND

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Apache-2.0 OR WITH and OR AND
```
Not entirely sure about that. But smells like the OR WITH and OR AND are the actual operations.

Author: This is just an example of invalid `License expression`, so don't look at it.

> License expression with that cannot be correctly interpreted

Reviewer: With what?

Author: Sorry, my copy-paste error. It was originally: `License expression that cannot be correctly interpreted`

```
/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/drivers/entropy/entropy_cc3xx.c
/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/drivers/hw_cc310/hw_cc310.c
/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/lib/fatal_error/fatal_error.c
```

## LicenseRef-Nordic-5-Clause

> Non-standard SPDX License: Nordic 5-Clause License
> 
> See [license text below](internal_link).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Non-standard SPDX License: Nordic 5-Clause License](internal_link).
```

```
/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/drivers/entropy/entropy_cc3xx.c
/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/drivers/hw_cc310/hw_cc310.c
/home/doki/work/ncs2/nrf/lib/fatal_error/fatal_error.c
```

## Apache-2.0

> Apache License 2.0
> 
> https://spdx.org/licenses/Apache-2.0.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Apache License 2.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/Apache-2.0.html)
```

Author: In this and other paces, I wanted to separate URL from license name to:
* show user that the details are outside this report
* show origin of the license (spdx.org in this case)

Reviewer: What if you have them as suggested and add some text, like "outside this report" or "not included in this report", after the link for reports like that?

```
/home/doki/work/ncs2/mbedtls/include/mbedtls/aes.h
/home/doki/work/ncs2/mbedtls/include/mbedtls/asn1.h
/home/doki/work/ncs2/mbedtls/include/mbedtls/asn1write.h
/home/doki/work/ncs2/mbedtls/include/mbedtls/bignum.h
```

# Custom license texts

> ## LicenseRef-BSD-1-Clause-SEGGER-D76B710A-458E-46E4-BEBD-EDB3A942146C
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## LicenseRef-BSD-1-Clause-SEGGER-D76B710A-458E-46E4-BEBD-EDB3A942146C

```
```
